So the while loop is a,
is the other major looping construct in R.
And the basic idea is that the while
takes a logical expression and
will execute the loop based on
the value of that logical expression.
So for example,
I've got a very simple loop here.
It initializes a count
variable equal to 0.
And then while that count is less
than 10 it prints out the count and
then increments the count by 1.
So, as soon as the, the value of
count gets to 10 the loop stops and
then it'll go on to the next body of code.
So so the, so the while loop makes,
the while loop is useful because it
makes things easy to read sometimes.
It's very obvious here that this
loop is supposed to stop working or
stop executing when the value of
account variable is 10 or more.
So it makes a little bit more readable.
How after, however you have to be a little
bit careful with, with while loops
because technically speaking they are
infinite loops while the and there's no.
You have to make sure that the,
the condition that stops the loop
will actually occur,
otherwise your program will never finish.
And so in this case,
it's fairly obvious that the loop
will eventually stop executing.
But a much more piece of code it can be
hard sometimes whether
the while loop will finish.
And so often it's safer to
to use something like a for
loop that has a hard limit on
the number of times it can execute.
So, it's not necessarily saying that
you should never use a while loop but
you just have to be careful
when you do use them.
So, you can, you can test multiple
conditions in a while loop or in any type
of construct, like an if statement, for
example by using the logical operators.
So, here I've got a variable z.
Which is equal,
which I initialized to the value 5.
The condition for the while is basically
while z is greater than equal to 3 and
is less than or equal to 10.
So, while it's between the values of 3 and
10.
Then what I'm going to do
is print the value of z.
I'm going to flip a coin, a fair coin,
and if the coin is a 1 I'm going
to add 1 to the my value and
if it's less than 1, sorry, excuse me,
if it's, if the coin is equal to 0 or
any other value for that matter
I'm going to subtract 1 from z.
So this,
I'm sharing a little random lock here, and
the value of z is going to go up or down
depending on my little coin flip here.
So when, so
here you see it's a little bit harder to
tell when the while loop will finish.
Because the,
the body of the while loop involves ra,
random random number generation.
So here the z value's going to zigzag up
and down until it eventually hits 10 or
eventually it hits 3 or
something less than 3.
And so this, this may be kind of nice, but
you have to be careful that it
doesn't go off for too long.
So, one thing to note, on a more technical
level is that the conditions in a,
when r tests the condition in a kind
of a multi-expression condition here,
I've got a c who I created because of
the 3 and z less than of equal to the 10.
The conditions are always evaluated
from left to right, so check to see if
the left's most condition is true and
then it goes to the next condition.
So, first, it'll check to see if
z is greater than or equal to 3.
If that's true then, if that happens to
be true, it'll go to the next expression.
It'll say, it'll check to see if
z is less than or equal to 10.
So then, if those are both true, it goes
onto the next into the body of the loop.